SCOPE OF WORK a) A detailed Scope of Work document (&quot;Scope&quot;) to be provided by Sponsor or prepared by CBSI under Sponsor's direction and approved by Sponsor will be attached to this agreement as Appendix 1.
CBSI will perform the service or services (&quot;Program&quot;) for Sponsor in accordance with the Scope.
The Scope will specify the program design, information desired, estimated duration of the Program, and all other matters pertinent to completion of the Program, and will be deemed a part of this Agreement and is incorporated herein by reference.
b) CBSI will, at Sponsor's request, consult with Sponsor in developing the Program design in a manner consistent with current regulatory guidelines.
However, CBSI does not warrant that the Product will be safe or efficacious or that the CMC section prepared as result of performing the Program will satisfy all the requirements of any regulatory agencies at the time of submission.
c) CBSI's performance of the work will be based on technical information provided by or for the Sponsor.
This information will be translated into development and/or manufacturing documents (development plans, batch records, specifications, etc.)
which will be reviewed and approved by the Sponsor.
These documents will form the basis upon which the work will be performed.
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE CBSI shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide facilities, supplies, and staff necessary to complete the Program as provided in the Scope, as it may be modified as provided herein, and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
In the event of any conflict between the Scope/Program and this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall control.
CBSI will appoint a CBSI representative (the &quot;Program Manager&quot;) to be responsible for the completion of the Program by CBSI.
The Program Manager will coordinate performance of the Program with a representative designated by Sponsor (the &quot;Sponsor Representative&quot;), which representative shall have responsibility over all matters relating to performance of the Program on behalf of Sponsor.
Unless otherwise agreed in the Scope, all communications between CBSI and the Sponsor regarding the conduct of the Program pursuant to the Scope shall be addressed to or routed through the Program Manager and Sponsor Representative, directly.
CBSI may, at its option, substitute the Program Manager during the course of the program.
PROGRAM MATERIALS a) Sponsor will provide CBSI with sufficient amounts of raw materials or other substances with which to perform the Program as specified in the Scope, (the &quot;Materials&quot;), as well as all documentation and such other data as may be available to apprise CBSI of the stability of the Materials, process characteristics, proper storage, manufacturing and safety requirements.
Sponsor will also provide CBSI with all necessary information to effect the reliable transfer of the process from the Sponsor to CBSI.
b) Upon completion of the Program, any remaining samples of the Materials or other substances provided to CBSI will be returned to Sponsor, at Sponsor's option and/or retained by CBSI in compliance with regulatory requirements.
COMPLIANCE WITH GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS a) CBSI will perform the Program in accordance with the Scope, and the current state of the Food and Drug Administration's current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP's) when appropriate to do so.
Subject to paragraph b. of Section 4 below, CBSI will also comply in all material respects with all applicable government regulatory requirements concerning current Good Manufacturing Practices appropriate to the Program.
b) Should such government regulatory requirements be changed, CBSI will make every reasonable effort to satisfy the new requirements.
c) In the event of a conflict in government regulations, Sponsor will designate, in writing, which regulations shall be followed by CBSI in its performance of the Program.
FACILITY VISITS Sponsor's representatives may visit CBSI's facility at appropriate times consistent with the Program to observe the progress of the Program.
CBSI will assist Sponsor in scheduling such visits which will be in compliance with requirement to protect confidentiality of other clients.
b) Sponsor shall make payments as defined in the Payment Schedule included in Appendix 1.
The &quot;...&quot; fee will be waived on &quot;...&quot;.
Payments are due 30 days from the date of invoice.
The program specific assumptions relate to the Program design and objectives, manpower requirements, timing, capital expenditure requirements, if any, and other matters relating to the completion of the Program as set forth in the Scope (the &quot;Program Assumptions&quot;).
CBSI also assumes that the Sponsor will cooperate and perform its obligations under the Agreement and Scope in a timely manner, that no event outside the control of CBSI will occur, including, without limitation, the events described in Section 17, and that there are no material changes to any applicable laws, rules or regulations which effect the Program (the foregoing assumptions together with the Program Assumptions, collectively, the &quot;Assumptions&quot;) 07/07/99 Page 3 of 11 4 [ &quot;...&quot; indicates material has been omitted pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Request, which the Company has filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission] EntreMedCovance Agreement In the event that any of the Assumptions require modification or the Program objectives cannot be achieved based on the Assumptions (each being, a &quot;Modification&quot;) then the Scope may be amended as provided in paragraph b) of this Section 7. b) In the event a Modification is identified by the Sponsor or by CBSI, the identifying party shall notify the other party as soon as is reasonably possible.
CBSI shall provide Sponsor with a Change Order containing an estimate of the required Modifications to the Program budget and timeline specified in the Scope within 20 business days of receiving such notice.
Sponsor shall use best efforts to respond in writing to such Change Order promptly.
If Sponsor does not approve such Change Order and has not terminated the Program but wants the Program to be modified to take into account the Modification, then Sponsor and CBSI shall use best efforts to agree on a Change Order that is mutually acceptable.
If practicable, CBSI shall continue work on the Program during any such negotiations, but shall not commence work with respect to the Change Order unless authorized in writing.
If such disclosure is requested by legal process, CBSI will make all reasonable efforts to notify Sponsor of this request promptly prior to any disclosure to permit Sponsor to oppose such disclosure by appropriate legal action.
b) CBSI will not transfer any materials without Sponsor's written permission to any third party unless such transfer is to an affiliate bound by the terms herein and is consistent with the Program.
c) If CBSI shall be obliged to provide testimony or records regarding any Sponsor Program in any legal or administrative proceeding, then Sponsor shall reimburse CBSI its outofpocket costs therefore plus an hourly fee for its employees or representatives equal to the internal fully burdened costs to CBSI of such employee or representative.
WORK PRODUCT a) All work outputs (e.g.
reports) will be prepared on CBSI's standard format unless otherwise specified in the Scope.
b) Sponsor will have title to all Materials, raw data, documentation, records, protocols, specimens and other reports generated as a result of this Program.
Five years after completion of the Program, all of the aforementioned materials will be sent to the Sponsor and a reasonable return fee will be charged.
The Sponsor may elect to have the materials retained in the CBSI Archives for an additional period of time at a reasonable additional cost.
If the Sponsor chooses to have CBSI dispose of the materials, a reasonable disposal fee will be charged.
CBSI will continue to retain such documentation and materials as required by regulations and as may be required by law, pertaining to such activities as well as for archival purposes.
INVENTIONS, PATENTS, AND RESULTS OF THE PROGRAM Any product or product improvement inventions or discoveries, including new uses for product and related patent rights which arise as a result of the work performed by CBSI will be owned by and assigned to Sponsor and CBSI will cooperate with Sponsor in perfecting Sponsor's interest in such intellectual property.
Any such process or process improvement inventions or discoveries and related patent rights which are made jointly by the parties shall be owned jointly by the parties.
With respect to any invention or discovery not owned by Sponsor as set forth above, CBSI hereby grants to Sponsor an exclusive, royaltyfree, paid up, perpetual, worldwide, sublicensable license in the field of AntiAngiogenesis under CBSI's sole and joint inventions and related patent rights arising as a result of the work performed by CBSI hereunder in order to make, have made, use, import, sell or offer to sell Product.
INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR CBSI shall perform the Program as an independent contractor of Sponsor and shall have complete and exclusive control over its facilities, equipment, employees and agents.
Nothing in this agreement or other arrangements for which it is made shall constitute CBSI, or anyone furnished or used by CBSI in the performance of the services, as employee, joint venture, partner, or servant of Sponsor.
INSURANCE CBSI shall secure and maintain in full force and effect throughout the performance of the Program policies of insurance for (a) Workmen's Compensation, (b) General Liability, (c) Automobile Liability, and (d) Professional Liability having policy limits, deductibles and other terms appropriate to the conduct of CBSI's business in CBSI's sole and exclusive judgment.
Certificates evidencing such insurance will be made available for examination upon request of the Sponsor.
DEFAULT a) If CBSI is in default of its material obligations under this Agreement, then Sponsor shall promptly notify CBSI in writing of any such default.
CBSI shall have a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of such notice within which to cure such default; provided that if such default renders the Program invalid, then CBSI, shall, at Sponsor's option, either (1) repeat the Program at its cost within a time period mutually agreed to by it and Sponsor or (2) refund the contract price paid by Sponsor.
If CBSI shall fail to cure such default within the specified cure period or repeat the Program, as the case may be, then this Agreement shall, at Sponsor's option, immediately terminate.
In the event of such termination, Sponsor's sole remedy shall be, in the case where such default has not rendered the Program invalid, a reduction in the total contract price for the Program in an amount equal to the difference between (1) the total contract price for the Program and (2) the value of the work properly performed, and, in the case where such default does render the Program invalid, a refund of the contract price; provided however that under no circumstance shall CBSI be liable to Sponsor in an amount that, in aggregate exceeds, the contract price paid for such Program.
In the event that any said default is directly attributable to the grossly negligent acts or omissions of CBSI, the limitation of remedies set forth in this section 13 (a) shall not apply.
b) If Sponsor is in default of its material obligations under this Agreement, CBSI shall promptly notify Sponsor in writing of any such default.
Sponsor shall have a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of such notice within which to cure such default; provided that if Sponsor fails to cure such breach within the specified cure period, this Agreement shall, at CBSI's option, immediately terminate.
c) Not withstanding anything herein to the contrary, UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL EITHER PARTY BE ENTITLED TO INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL OR SPECIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THE DEFAULT OR BREACH OF ANY OBLIGATION OF THE OTHER PARTY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, THE SCOPE OR ANY DOCUMENTS OR APPENDICES RELATED THERETO.
DISPUTE RESOLUTION a) In the event any dispute shall arise between the Sponsor and CBSI with respect to any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement or the Protocol; then senior executives of the Sponsor and CBSI shall meet as promptly as practicable after notice of such dispute to resolve in good faith such dispute.
07/07/99 Page 6 of 11 7 [ &quot;...&quot; indicates material has been omitted pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Request, which the Company has filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission] EntreMedCovance Agreement b) If the Sponsor and CBSI are unable to satisfactorily resolve the dispute, then such dispute shall be finally settled by an arbitrator in accordance with this Section 14.
The arbitration will be held in or around Raleigh, North Carolina, and except as noted below, shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association by two arbitrators appointed, one by each party.
If the arbitrators appointed cannot agree on the resolution of the dispute within sixty (60) days after the dispute is submitted to them, they shall thereupon appoint a third arbitrator, and if they fail to agree upon a third arbitrator within 30 days after a deadlock is declared by either arbitrator, a third arbitrator will be appointed by the American Arbitration Association upon the request of either arbitrator.
The arbitrators shall have no authority to award consequential, punitive or exemplary damages or to vary from or ignore the terms of this Agreement and shall be bound by controlling law.
Finally, the parties may seek judicial intervention for emergency relief, such as restraining orders and injunctions where appropriate.
Any decision by the third arbitrator and either one of the other arbitrators shall be binding upon the parties and may be entered as final judgment in any court having jurisdiction.
The cost of any arbitration proceeding shall be borne by the parties as the arbitrators shall determine if the parties have not otherwise agreed.
The arbitrators shall render their final decision in writing to the parties.
INDEMNIFICATION a) CBSI shall indemnify Sponsor and its affiliates and their respective officers, directors and employees from any loss, cost, damage or expense (a &quot;Loss&quot;) from any lawsuit, action, claim, demand, assessment or proceeding (a &quot;Claim&quot;) for personal injury to Program participants or personal injury to any employee of Sponsor or property damage arising or occurring during the conduct of the Program as a result of (i) CBSI's negligence, gross negligence or intentional misconduct or inaction, or (ii) CBSI's violation, noncompliance or nonperformance of any terms of this Agreement; provided that if such Loss or Claim arises in whole or in part from Sponsor's negligence, gross negligence or intentional misconduct or inaction, then the amount of the Loss that CBSI shall indemnify Sponsor for pursuant to this Section 15 shall be reduced by an amount in proportion to the percentage of Sponsor's responsibilities for such Loss determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final and nonappealable decision or in a binding settlement between the parties.
b) Sponsor shall indemnify CBSI and its affiliates and their respective officers, directors, employees and agents (the &quot;CBSI Group&quot;) from any Claim or Loss arising from or related to (i) personal injury to a participant in the Program or personal injury to any employee of the CBSI Group directly or indirectly caused by the raw material, Product, intermediates or the Program, (ii) CBSI's performance of or involvement with the raw material, the Product or its obligations under this Agreement or the Scope related thereto, 07/07/99 Page 7 of 11 8 [ &quot;...&quot; indicates material has been omitted pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Request, which the Company has filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission] EntreMedCovance Agreement (iii) CBSI's performance of the Program violating or infringing on the patents, trademarks, tradenames, servicemarks or copyrights of any third party with respect to Product and the process to manufacture Product, Product intermediates, or raw materials relating to Product, (iv) the harmful or otherwise unsafe effect of the raw materials or Product, including, without limitation, a Claim based upon Sponsor or any other person's use, consumption, sale, distribution or marketing of any substance, including the raw material or the Product, (v) the negligence, gross negligence or intentional misconduct or inaction of Sponsor in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or Scope related to the Program, or (vi) the Sponsor's violation, noncompliance or nonperformance of any of the terms of this Agreement; provided that if such Loss or Claim (other than a Loss or Claim described in clause (iv) hereof) arises in whole or in part from CBSI's negligence, gross negligence or intentional misconduct or inaction, then the amount of such Loss that Sponsor shall indemnify the CBSI Group for pursuant to this Section 15 shall be reduced by an amount in proportion to the percentage of CBSI's responsibilities for such Loss as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final and nonappealable decision or in a binding settlement between the parties.
Sponsor shall not indemnify the CBSI Group from any Loss from any claim described in clause (iv) hereof arising solely from the willful misconduct or inaction of CBSI.
c) Upon receipt of notice of any Claim which may give rise to a right of indemnity from the other party hereto, the party seeking indemnification (the &quot;Indemnified Party&quot;) shall give written notice thereof to the other party, (the &quot;Indemnifying Party&quot;) with a Claim for indemnity.
Such Claim for indemnity shall indicate the nature of the Claim and the basis therefore.
Promptly after a claim is made for which the Indemnified Party seeks indemnity, the Indemnified Party shall permit the Indemnifying Party, at its option and expense, to assume the complete defense of such Claim, provided that (i) the Indemnified Party will have the right to participate in the defense of any such Claim at its own cost and expense, (ii) the Indemnifying Party will conduct the defense of any such Claim with due regard for the business interests and potential related liabilities of the Indemnified Party and (iii) the Indemnifying Party will, prior to making any settlement, consult with the Indemnified Party as to the terms of such settlement.
The Indemnified Party shall have the right, at its election, to release and hold harmless the Indemnifying Party from its obligations hereunder with respect to such Claim and assume the complete defense of the same in return for payment by the Indemnifying Party to the Indemnified Party of the amount of the Indemnifying Party's settlement offer.
The Indemnifying Party will not, in defense of any such Claim, except with the consent of the Indemnified Party, consent to the entry of any judgment or enter into any settlement which does not include, as an unconditional term thereof, the giving by the claimant or plaintiff to the Indemnified Party of a release from all liability in respect thereof.
After notice to the Indemnified Party of the Indemnifying Party's election to assume the defense of such Claim, the Indemnifying Party shall be liable to the Indemnified Party for such legal or other reasonable expenses subsequently incurred by the Indemnified Party in connection with the defense thereof at the request of the Indemnifying Party.
As to those Claims with respect to which the Indemnifying Party does not elect to assume control of the defense, 07/07/99 Page 8 of 11 9 [ &quot;...&quot; indicates material has been omitted pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Request, which the Company has filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission] EntreMedCovance Agreement the Indemnified Party will afford the Indemnifying Party an opportunity to participate in such defense at the Indemnifying Party's own cost and expense, and will not settle or otherwise dispose of any of the same without the consent of the Indemnifying Party.
FORCE MAJEURE Either party shall be excused from performing its respective obligations under this Agreement if its performance is delayed or prevented by any event beyond such party's reasonable control, including, but not limited to, acts of God, fire, explosion, weather, disease, war, insurrection, civil strife, riots, government action, or power failure, provided that such performance shall be excused only to the extent of and during such disability.
Any time specified for completion of performance in the Scope falling due during or subsequent to the occurrence of any or such events shall be automatically extended for a period of time to recover from such disability.
If any part of the Program is invalid as a result of such disability, CBSI will, upon written request from Sponsor, but at Sponsor's sole cost and expense, repeat that part of the Program affected by the disability.
If CBSI is likely to be unable to perform for a period in excess of 60 days then the parties agree to negotiate in good faith a mutually satisfactory approach to resolve the delay resulting from this paragraph.
If the parties cannot reach a mutually satisfactory approach within 60 days, then Sponsor shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement without payment of liquidated damages (Section 20).
ALLOCATION OF RESOURCES If delays in the agreed commencement or performance of the Program occur because of the Sponsor's inability to supply CBSI with agreed Materials or any information required to begin or perform the Program within 30 days of such agreed time, CBSI may reallocate resources being held for performance of the Program without incurring liability to Sponsor.
USE OF NAMES Neither party shall use the name of the other party or the names of the employees of the other party in any advertising or sales promotional material or in any publication without prior 07/07/99 Page 9 of 11 10 [ &quot;...&quot; indicates material has been omitted pursuant to a Confidential Treatment Request, which the Company has filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission] EntreMedCovance Agreement written permission of such party, except Sponsor may, as required by law or regulatory requirements, disclose that CBSI has performed the Program.
TERMINATION BY SPONSOR a) Sponsor may at any time terminate the Program prior to completion by giving 45 days written notice to CBSI.
In such event CBSI shall comply with such notice to terminate work on the Program and use its best efforts to reduce cost to Sponsor, and Sponsor shall pay CBSI upon receipt of CBSI's invoice all of its costs incurred or irrevocably obligated.
c) The termination of this Agreement for any reason shall not relieve either party of its obligation to the other for obligations in respect of (i) confidentiality of information, (ii) consents for advertising purposes and publications, (iii) indemnification and, (iv) compensation for services performed.
ASSIGNMENT This Agreement shall not be assigned in whole or in part by either party without the prior written consent of the other, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed except Sponsor may assign without consent in the event of a merger, acquisition, or transfer of all of its assets related to this Agreement.
Any attempt to assign this Agreement without such consent, where required, shall be void and of no effect subject to the limitations on assignment herein.
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
NOTICE All notices to be given as required in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, sent by telecopies, or mailed either by a reputable overnight carrier or first class mail, postage prepaid to the parties at the addresses set forth above or such other addresses as the parties may designate in writing.
Such notice shall be effective on the date sent, if delivered personally or sent by telecopier, the date after delivery if sent by overnight carrier and on the date received if mailed first class.
CHOICE OF LAW This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to choice of law principles.
If any provisions hereof shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and effect of the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be effected thereby.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT; MODIFICATION/COUNTERPARTS This instrument, the Confidential Disclosure Agreement with an effective date of 31 March 1998, and the Scope set forth the entire Agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the performance of the Program by CBSI for Sponsor and as such, supersedes all prior and contemporaneous negotiations, agreements, representations, understandings, and commitments with respect thereto and shall take precedence over all terms, conditions and provisions on any purchase order form or form of order acknowledgment or other document purporting to address the same subject matter.
This Agreement shall not be waived, released, discharged, changed or modified in any manner except by an instrument signed by the duly authorized officers of each of the partied hereto, which instrument shall make specific reference to this Agreement and shall express the plan or intention to modify same.
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
This Agreement becomes effective and binding on both parties on and as of the last date that the parties hereto have executed this Agreement.
Support EntreMed's regulatory strategy by preparing a draft CMC section for a Phase I IND filing.
Note: When manufacturing clinical material, CBSI will follow current Good Manufacturing Practices.
CBSI will manufacture utilizing in process control tests to meet the specifications for purity, identity and safety.
CBSI does not warrant that the material produced under cGMP will be biologically active.
For the Angiostatin program, CBSI will: Attempt to reproduce and scale up fermentation, recovery and purification processes to manufacture Angiostatin based on information from EntreMed.
If these assumptions prove to be incorrect, then alternative approaches will need to be considered to achieve the stated deliverables.
For Angiostatin, &quot;...&quot; will be sufficient to ensure process operation and reproducibility.
The program will be managed to maximize the likelihood of achieving Angiostatin delivery on or before the required dates.
Continuing process development will be in parallel with manufacturing; any improvements in the manufacturing process that are discovered by this parallel development work will be incorporated into the manufacturing process when practicable within the constraints of a cGMP environment.
Attempt to reproduce and scale up a fermentation process for Angiostatin with reference to the existing CBSI process for Endostatin.
Perform additional development work as necessary.
Attempt to reproduce and scale up a recovery process for Angiostatin with reference to the existing CBSI process for Endostatin.
Perform additional development work as necessary.
Attempt to reproduce and scale up a purification process for Angiostatin with reference to the existing CBSI process for Endostatin.
Perform additional development work as necessary.
These process development efforts include some or all activities described on the following pages.
b) CBSI will develop specifications for all raw materials based on information provided by EntreMed.
CBSI will order and release raw materials according to CBSI Standard Operating Procedures.
c) CBSI will generate batch records for the cell bank production activities.
EntreMed will review and approve all batch records prior to cell bank production.
CBSI Quality Group will provide support for batch record review and approval, raw material release and environmental monitoring.
e) CBSI will provide temporary storage for cell banks (&quot;...&quot; degreesC).
f) CBSI will perform the following tests on samples from the MCB and MWCB.
CBSI will retain the originals in its archives.
Records for this stage of the process will be maintained using DRAFT cGMP documents (batch records and formulation records).
Analytical assays will be preformed to verify product identity and quality on material from these demonstration runs using appropriate assays.
Specific goals for yield and purity will be mutually agreed upon between EntreMed and CBSI based on early development results, clinical needs and project timelines.
The &quot;...&quot; scale activities will be performed in CBSI's large scale manufacturing area.
MILESTONE: AFTER COMPLETION OF DEMONSTRATION RUNS, CBSI AND ENTREMED WILL DETERMINE THAT USEABLE ANGIOSTATIN CAN BE PRODUCED AT LARGE SCALE BASED ON THE REVIEW OF DATA.
EntreMed and CBSI will jointly determine the specific assays to be used for inprocess control and Angiostatin release testing.
The specific testing regimen will depend on the inherent properties of Angiostatin.
This table lists the assays that may be employed for characterization, inprocess control and release testing of Angiostatin.
The Program Team would meet weekly via teleconference or in person.
The Executive Committee will meet on a monthly basis (or as required) to review Program progress, review budgetary progress and address any outstanding issues.
CBSI will provide a Program Manager for the duration of the project.
The fill concentration for Angiostatin toxicology material will be &quot;...&quot; in a formulation to be mutually determined.
Test vialed Angiostatin per Item Specifications to be determined.
Testing to be performed by CBSI QC staff.
Provide certificate of analysis, released by QA, for vialed Angiostatin.
Draft cGMP documentation as prepared during preproduction activities will be used during production of toxicology material.
CBSI will use its best judgement to establish a manufacturing strategy in consultation with EntreMed.
The Analytical Development Group will perform preliminary analysis of samples using appropriate assays.
The Quality Assurance Group will not perform a formal review of documentation.
CBSI will retain the originals in its archives.
cGMP documentation as prepared during preproduction activities and modified during demonstration runs will be adhered to and manufacturing will be performed under Quality Assurance oversight as described in the Quality Function section.
CBSI will use its best judgement to establish a manufacturing strategy in consultation with EntreMed.
Note: When manufacturing clinical material, CBSI will follow current Good Manufacturing Practices.
By testing this material against analytical specifications, CBSI will demonstrate this material meets specifications for purity and contamination levels.
CBSI does not warrant that the material produced under cGMP will be biologically active.
Clinical studies will be used to determine if the material is efficacious.
Analytical methods to verify substance identity and quality will be performed by the QC department.
CBSI will provide EntreMed with copies of the completed and approved batch records.
All records will be in preapproved cGMP documents subject to full QA review.
CBSI will retain the originals in its archives.
Characterize reference standard Compare Angiostatin to reference standard.
If the process requires processing times greater than those indicated in 2.
(above), then Parties agree that the process is economically unviable and agree to discuss how best to proceed.
Sponsor must not use best efforts to respond in writing to such Change Order promptly.
CBSI may appoint a CBSI representative (the "Program Manager") to be responsible for the completion of the Program by CBSI.
CBSI may retain the originals in its archives. 
