
World Congress
Hosting AgreementAction Learning and Action Research Association Inc.
[World Congress Host]

Allens Arthur Robinson
Riverside Centre
123 Eagle Street
Brisbane  QLD  4000
Tel  61 7 3334 3000
Fax  61 7 3334 3444
www.aar.com.au



(c) Copyright Allens Arthur Robinson, Australia 2008

Table of Contents
1.	Definitions and Interpretation	1
1.1	Definitions	1
1.2	Interpretation	2
2.	Appointment	2
3.	Term	2
4.	Congress Plans	2
4.1	Development of Congress Plans	2
4.2	Approval of Plans	2
4.3	Compliance with Congress Plans	2
5.	Congress Organising Committee	2
5.1	Establishment	2
5.2	Membership	2
5.3	Role	2
5.4	Co-operation with ALARA	2
6.	Financial Arrangements	2
6.1	Congress Bank Account	2
6.2	Congress Seed Funding	2
6.3	Host to be reimbursed	2
6.4	Congress Proceeds	2
6.5	Registration Fees	2
7.	Assistance to be provided by ALARA	2
8.	Indemnity and Insurance	2
8.1	Indemnity	2
8.2	Insurance of indemnified risks	2
9.	GST	2
9.1	GST to be added to amounts payable	2
9.2	Tax Invoice and Adjustment Note	2
9.3	Liability net of GST	2
9.4	GST obligations to survive termination	2
10.	Confidentiality	2
10.1	Confidentiality	2
10.2	Permitted disclosure	2
10.3	Survival of obligation	2
11.	Public Statements	2
12.	Notices	2
13.	Force Majeure	2
13.1	Event of Force Majeure	2
13.2	Force Majeure notice	2
13.3	Remedy of Force Majeure	2
13.4	Mitigation	2
13.5	No requirement to settle labour dispute	2
13.6	Termination for extended Force Majeure	2
14.	Termination	2
14.1	Termination for breach	2
14.2	Survival of Obligations	2
15.	Dispute Resolution	2
15.1	Negotiation	2
15.2	Mediation	2
15.3	Court proceedings and other relief	2
15.4	Continuation of rights and obligations	2
16.	Assignment	2
17.	General	2
17.1	Costs and Stamp Duty	2
17.2	Governing Law and Jurisdiction	2
17.3	No Agency or Partnership	2
17.4	Severability of Provisions	2
17.5	Entire Agreement	2
17.6	Counterparts	2
Schedule 1 - Congress Guidelines	2
Schedule 2 - Congress Milestones	2
Schedule 3 - ALARA Management Committee	2
Schedule 4 - Key Contact Details	2
Schedule 5 - Project Plan	2
Schedule 6 - Business Plan	2



Date	parties   1. Action Learning and Action Research Association Inc. ABN 41 587 420 126 of  PO Box 1748, Toowong, Queensland, Australia, 4066 (ALARA).   2. [Host Name] [(Registered Company Number [*])] incorporated in [*]] of [Host Address] (the Host).Recitals   A ALARA wishes to engage the Host to organise, host and conduct the Congress.   B The Host has agreed to organise, host and conduct the Congress in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.It is agreed as follows.
1. Definitions and Interpretation
1.1 Definitions
The following definitions apply unless the context requires otherwise.
Action Research and Action Learning means inquiry-in-action characterised by inclusion, collaboration, reflection, appreciation of diversity, questioning and respect for differing ways of knowing.
Adjustment Note has the meaning given by the GST Law.
ALARA Management Committee means the committee responsible for the management of ALARA in accordance with its constitution, the membership of which, at the date of this Agreement, is as set out in Schedule 3.
ALARA Seed Funding means the funding provided by ALARA to support the Congress and paid to the Host in accordance with clause 6.2.
Congress means the 8th ALARA World Congress (to be held in conjunction with the 12th PAR Congress) in 2009.
Congress Bank Account means the bank account established pursuant to clause 0.
Congress Milestones means the milestones set out in Schedule 2.
Congress Organising Committee means the committee established to organise the Congress in accordance with clause 5.
Congress Plans has the meaning given in clause 4.1.
Consideration has the meaning given by the GST Law.
Force Majeure means an event or cause beyond the reasonable control of the party claiming force majeure.  It includes each of the following, to the extent it is beyond the reasonable control of that party:
(a) act of God, lightning, storm, flood, fire, earthquake or explosion, cyclone, tidal wave, landslide, adverse weather conditions;
(b) strike, lockout or other labour difficulty;
(c) act of public enemy, war (declared or undeclared), terrorism, sabotage, blockade, revolution, riot, insurrection, civil commotion, epidemic;
(d) the effect of any applicable laws, orders, rules or regulations of any government or other competent authority;
(e) embargo, power or water shortage, lack of transportation; and
(f) breakage or accident or other damage to machinery.
GST has the meaning given by the GST Law.
GST Amount means in relation to a Taxable Supply the amount of GST payable in respect of that Taxable Supply.
GST Law has the meaning given by the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).
Host Seed Funding has the meaning given in clause 6.2.
Input Tax Credit has the meaning given by the GST Law and a reference to an Input Tax Credit entitlement of a party includes an Input Tax Credit for an acquisition made by that party but to which another member of the same GST Group is entitled under the GST Law.
PAR means participatory action research and refers to those action research approaches that emphasise empowerment and emancipation in their outcomes.
Progress Reports has the meaning given in clause 5.4.
Public Statement has the meaning given in clause 11.
Tax Invoice has the meaning given by the GST Law.
Taxable Supply has the meaning given by the GST Law excluding the reference to section 84-5 of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) and (except where expressly agreed otherwise) excluding a supply in respect of which the supplier chooses to apply the Margin Scheme in working out the amount of GST on that supply.

1.2 Interpretation
Headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation.  The following rules apply unless the context requires otherwise.
(a) The singular includes the plural, and the converse also applies.
(b) A gender includes all genders.
(c) If a word or phrase is defined, its other grammatical forms have a corresponding meaning.
(d) A reference to a person includes a corporation, trust, partnership, unincorporated body or other entity, whether or not it comprises a separate legal entity.
(e) A reference to a clause, schedule or annexure is a reference to a clause of, or schedule or annexure to, this Agreement.
(f) A reference to an agreement or document (including a reference to this Agreement) is to the agreement or document as amended, supplemented, novated or replaced, except to the extent prohibited by this Agreement or that other agreement or document.
(g) A reference to writing includes any method of representing or reproducing words, figures, drawings or symbols in a visible and tangible form.
(h) A reference to a party to this Agreement or another agreement or document includes the party's successors, permitted substitutes and permitted assigns (and, where applicable, the party's legal personal representatives).
(i) A reference to dollars and $ is to Australian currency.
(j) All references to time are to Australian Eastern Standard time.
(k) Mentioning anything after includes, including, for example, or similar expressions, does not limit what else might be included.
2. Appointment
The Host must organise, host and conduct the Congress with due care and skill in accordance with this Agreement.
3. Term
This Agreement commences on the date it is executed by the last of the parties and terminates on completion of the last of the Congress Milestones to the reasonable satisfaction of ALARA, unless terminated earlier in accordance with its terms.
4. Congress Plans
4.1 Development of Congress Plans
Within 3 months of the commencement of this Agreement the Host must provide ALARA with a copy of its proposed Congress Business Plan and proposed Congress Project Plan (Congress Plans).  The proposed Congress Project Plan must include the dates for the completion of Congress Milestones (to the extent that these have not been specified in this Agreement) and the matters set out in Schedule 5.  The proposed Congress Business Plan must include the matters set out in Schedule 6.
4.2 Approval of Plans
(a) ALARA must review the proposed Congress Plans within 5 business days of receiving them and must either approve the Congress Plans or consult promptly with the Host about what changes it requires.
(b) If ALARA requires changes to the Congress Plans the Host must provide revised Congress Plans to ALARA as soon as practicable after consultations between the parties.  ALARA must consider the revised plans in accordance with clause 4.2(a).
(c) If the Host does not obtain ALARA's approval to the proposed Congress Plans by the date for the achievement of this Congress Milestone, ALARA may terminate this Agreement in accordance with clause 14.1.
4.3 Compliance with Congress Plans
The Host must perform diligently and use all reasonable endeavours to ensure that the Congress is organised and held in accordance with the Congress Plans.
5. Congress Organising Committee
5.1 Establishment
The Host in consultation with the ALARA Management Committee:
(a) must establish a Congress Organising Committee by the relevant Congress Milestone date; and
(b) may establish other bodies to assist in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
5.2 Membership
The Congress Organising Committee membership must include at least:
(c) one member of the ALARA Management Committee, to be determined in consultation with ALARA;
(d) one member nominated by the Host; and
(e) not less than two members nominated by the Host from individuals and organisations that are actively engaged in action learning, action research and associated methods in the Host's country and its region or from the PAR community in the Host's country and its region,
and may, at the Host's discretion, include representation from the host organisation of the next World Congress. 
5.3 Role
The role of the Congress Organising Committee is to assist the Host in meeting its responsibilities for the organisation, hosting and conduct of the Congress and, in particular, to assist the Host in overseeing implementation of, and monitoring performance against, the Congress Plans.
5.4 Co-operation with ALARA
The Host must ensure that the Congress Organising Committee consults with and reports in writing to the ALARA Management Committee, about progress against the Congress Plans and other relevant matters (Progress Reports) including:
(a) the Congress theme;
(b) overall Congress design (for example. streams, keynote addresses, structure, process);
(c) Congress sponsorships or other Congress contracts with a value greater than $2,000;
(d) evaluation of the Congress; 
(e) arrangements for the passing on of learning to the next Congress host; and 
(f) data and information transfer protocols (particularly those that require software compatibility).
These Progress Reports are to be provided at three monthly intervals up to the Early Bird Registration Commencement Congress Milestone date as set out in Schedule 2, after which they are to be provided on a monthly basis.
The ALARA Management Committee will work collaboratively with the Congress Organising Committee and will provide feedback and assistance to the Congress Organising Committee in response to the Progress Reports.
6. Financial Arrangements
[FUNDING OPTION A - ALARA TO PROVIDE SEED FUNDING]
[Use Option A if ALARA is to provide seed funding to the Host] 
6.1 [Congress Bank Account
(a) ALARA must open and maintain a bank account, to be called ["12th World Congress Account"] with a recognised Australian bank.
(b) ALARA must provide monthly statements to the Congress Organising Committee for each month during the term of this Agreement detailing all Congress Bank Account transactions in the relevant month.
(c) ALARA must close the Congress Bank Account as soon as practicable after the completion of the Congress and the distribution of Congress proceeds in accordance with clause 6.4, and must provide the Congress Organising Committee with audited accounts in respect of the Congress Bank Account.
6.2 Congress Seed Funding
(a) ALARA will make available to the Host $20,000 as seed funding (ALARA Seed Funding) into the Congress Bank Account to assist in the organising, hosting and conducting the Congress, in accordance with this clause 6.2.
(b) ALARA may make the ALARA Seed Funding available in instalments, at the times proposed by ALARA, in consultation with the Congress Organising Committee.
(c) Unless otherwise agreed with ALARA, the Host must match the ALARA Seed Funding provided by ALARA, and must pay that funding into the Congress Bank Account at the same time and in the same amounts as the ALARA Seed Funding (Host Seed Funding).
(d) ALARA may withhold instalments of the ALARA Seed Funding if Progress Reports are not provided in accordance with clause 5.4.
(e) The ALARA Seed Funding is to be repaid to ALARA from the Congress proceeds in accordance with clause 6.4 below.
6.3 Host to be reimbursed
Subject to the Congress Bank Account being in sufficient funds, ALARA must reimburse the Host for reasonable Congress expenses within 21 days of receipt of an invoice from the Host detailing the expenses being claimed.  If requested by ALARA the Host must provide such additional supporting material evidencing the expenses as ALARA may reasonably require.
6.4 Congress Proceeds
Funds from the Congress Bank Account will be paid out in the following priority order:
(a) first, reimbursement of reasonable Congress expenses under clause 6.3;
(b) second, an amount equivalent to the ALARA Seed Funding will be paid to ALARA;
(c) third, an amount equivalent to the Host Seed Funding will be paid to the Host;
(d) fourth, half of the remaining proceeds will be paid to ALARA; and
(e) fifth, the remaining proceeds will be paid to the Host.  If the Host comprises more than one person the remaining proceeds will be distributed equally among them, unless they otherwise agree in writing.
Payments from the Congress Bank Account will be made less any withholding tax obligations imposed on ALARA.
6.5 Registration Fees
All Congress registration fees received by ALARA in the performance of its obligations under clause 7(b) must be promptly paid into the Congress Bank Account.]

[FUNDING OPTION B - HOST HAS ALL RISK AND ALL REWARD] 
6.6 [Congress Funding by Host
(a) The Host will be responsible for providing all funding required to organise, host and conduct the Congress and to perform its obligations under this Agreement and is not entitled to any reimbursement for expenses, unless otherwise agreed by ALARA.
(b) The Host is entitled to retain all of the Congress proceeds.
[ONLY USE IF ALARA IS RECEIVING REGISTRATION FEES]
6.7 Congress Bank Account
(a) ALARA must open and maintain a bank account, to be called ["12th World Congress Account"] with a recognised Australian bank.
(b) ALARA must provide monthly statements to the Congress Organising Committee for each month during the term of this Agreement detailing all Congress Bank Account transactions in the relevant month.
(c) ALARA must close the Congress Bank Account as soon as practicable after the completion of the Congress and return any remaining Congress proceeds to the Host, and must provide the Congress Organising Committee with audited accounts in respect of the Congress Bank Account.]
[ONLY USE IF ALARA IS RECEIVING REGISTRATION FEES]
6.8 Registration Fees
(a) All Congress registration fees received by ALARA in the performance of its obligations under clause 7(b) must be promptly paid into the Congress Bank Account.
(b) Registration fees must be paid from the Congress Bank Acount in accordance with written instructions of the Congress Organising Committee.
7. Assistance to be provided by ALARA
In addition to ALARA's other obligations under this Agreement, ALARA will assist the Host in the organisation and conduct of the Congress by:
(a) providing internet based publicity and marketing of the Congress;
(b) providing  administration services (including internet based services) to receive and process Congress registrations (including the receipt of all registration fees); 
(c) internet based communication and participation opportunities to facilitate Congress engagement prior to and following the Congress; and
(d) publication of Congress papers in the ALAR Journal.
8. Indemnity and Insurance
8.1 Indemnity
The Host indemnifies ALARA against any claim, loss, damage, liability, cost and expense that may be incurred or sustained by ALARA arising out of any act, matter or thing done, permitted or omitted to be done by the Host, its agents, employees or contractors in relation to the Congress. 
8.2 Insurance of indemnified risks
(a) The Host must take out and maintain for the term of this Agreement:
(i) a public liability insurance policy with respect to any liabilities to ALARA and any third parties for the death or injury of any person or any loss, damage or destruction of any property; and
(ii) a policy of insurance with respect to its liabilities to ALARA under the indemnity contained in clause 8.1. 
with a reputable and solvent insurer for an amount of $10 million.  The insurance referred to in paragraph (a) must otherwise be effected on the terms and conditions as may from time to time be reasonably required by ALARA.
(b) As soon as reasonably practicable after a request is made by ALARA to the Host, the Host must produce a current insurance policy or certificate of currency in respect of its insurance conforming with the requirements of this clause 8.2.
(c) The requirements of this clause are without prejudice to and do not affect the operation of the indemnities and limitations of liability contained in this Agreement.
9. GST
9.1 GST to be added to amounts payable
If GST is payable on a Taxable Supply made under, by reference to or in connection with this Agreement, the party providing the Consideration for that Taxable Supply must also pay the GST Amount as additional Consideration.  This clause does not apply  to the extent that the Consideration for the Taxable Supply is expressly agreed to be GST inclusive.
9.2 Tax Invoice and Adjustment Note
No payment of any amount pursuant to clause 9.1, and no payment of the GST Amount where the Consideration for a Taxable Supply is expressly agreed to be GST inclusive, is required until the supplier has provided a Tax Invoice or Adjustment Note as the case may be to the recipient.
9.3 Liability net of GST
Any reference in the calculation of Consideration or of any indemnity, reimbursement or similar amount to a cost, expense or other liability incurred by a party, must exclude the amount of any Input Tax Credit entitlement of that party in relation to the relevant cost, expense or other liability.
9.4 GST obligations to survive termination
This clause will continue to apply after expiration or termination of this Agreement.
10. Confidentiality
10.1 Confidentiality
Subject to clause 10.2, a party must not disclose, or use for a purpose other than contemplated by this Agreement, the existence of and terms of this Agreement or any unpublished information or documents supplied by the other party in connection with this Agreement.
10.2 Permitted disclosure
(a) A party may disclose any confidential information or documents:
(i) to the other party to this Agreement;
(ii) which is at the time lawfully in the possession of the proposed recipient of the information through sources other than the other party to this Agreement;
(iii) in enforcing this Agreement or in a proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement;
(iv) if required under a binding order of a Governmental Agency or under a procedure for discovery in any proceedings;
(v) if required under any law or any administrative guideline, directive, request or policy whether or not having the force of law;
(vi) as required or permitted by this Agreement;
(vii) to its legal advisers, its insurers and its consultants; or
(viii) with the prior written consent of the other party to this Agreement.
10.3 Survival of obligation
This clause survives the termination of this Agreement.
11. Public Statements
(a) Neither ALARA nor the Host (including the Congress Organising Committee) may release any publications, promotional material, press or media statements (Public Statement) in respect of the Congress without the prior approval of the other party.
(b) The party seeking approval must allow the other party 5 business days to give its approval.
(c) If a party withholds its approval it may notify the other party of the changes it requires to the Public Statement.
(d) If the party seeking approval makes all of the changes notified by the other party under sub-clause (c) above it may release the Public Statement without referring the revised Public  Statement to the other party for re-approval, but must provide the other party with a copy of the Public Statement contemporaneously with its public release.
12. Notices
Any notice, demand, consent or other communication (a Notice) given or made under this Agreement:
(a) must be in writing and signed by the sender or a person duly authorised by the sender;
(b) must be addressed and delivered to the intended recipient at the address, fax number or email address below or the address, fax number or email address last notified by the intended recipient to the sender after the date of this Agreement:
(i) to ALARA:PO Box 1748
Toowong  QLD  4066
Australia
Attention: The President
Fax No: + 61 7 3870 4013
Email: [*](ii) to the Host (including the Congress Organising Committee):[*]
Attention: [*]
Fax No: [*]
Email: [*](c) for the avoidance of doubt, can be given by email (other than the following notices):
(i) a notice given under clause 13; and
(ii) a notice given under clause 14.1; and
(d) will be taken to be duly given or made when delivered, received or left at the above fax number, email address or address.  If delivery or receipt occurs on a day that is not a business day in the place to which the Notice is sent or is later than 4pm (local time) at that place, it will be taken to have been duly given or made at the commencement of business on the next business day in that place.
13. Force Majeure
13.1 Event of Force Majeure
If a party is prevented in whole or in part from carrying out its obligations under this Agreement (other than an obligation to pay money) as a result of Force Majeure, it must promptly give a notice to the other party that complies with clause 13.2.
Following this notice, and while the Force Majeure continues, the obligations which cannot be performed (other than an obligation to pay money) because of the Force Majeure will be suspended if the party giving notice has taken all proper precautions, due care and reasonable alternatives with the intention of avoiding the delay or failure and of carrying out its obligations under this Agreement.
13.2 Force Majeure notice
A notice given under clause 13.1 must:
(a) specify the obligations a party cannot perform; and
(b) fully describe the event of Force Majeure.
13.3 Remedy of Force Majeure
The party that is prevented from carrying out its obligations under this Agreement as a result of Force Majeure must remedy the Force Majeure to the extent reasonably practicable and resume performance of its obligations as soon as reasonably possible.
13.4 Mitigation
The party that is prevented from carrying out its obligations under this Agreement as a result of Force Majeure must take all action reasonably practicable to mitigate any loss suffered by a party as a result of its failure to carry out its obligations under this Agreement.
13.5 No requirement to settle labour dispute
A party is not required, under clause 13.1, 13.2 or 13.3 to settle any labour dispute against its will.
13.6 Termination for extended Force Majeure
If a party is prevented from carrying out its obligations under this Agreement as a result of Force Majeure for a period of 3 months the other party may terminate this Agreement by giving 30 days notice to the party claiming Force Majeure, without prejudice to any of the rights of either party accrued prior to the date of termination.
14. Termination
14.1 Termination for breach
Either party may terminate this Agreement immediately by notice to the other party if:
(a) the other party commits a material breach of this Agreement (unless the breach is capable of remedy, in which case if the other party fails to remedy the breach within 7 days after being required in writing to do so);
(b) the other party being a company:
(i) stops or suspends or threatens to stop or suspend payment of all or a  class of its debts;
(ii) is insolvent within the meaning of section 95A of the Corporations Act;
(iii) must be presumed by a court to be insolvent by reason of an event set out in section 459C(2) of the Corporations Act;
(iv) fails to comply with a statutory demand (within the meaning of section 459F(1) of the Corporations Act);
(v) 	has an administrator appointed or any step preliminary to the appointment of an administrator is taken;
(vi) has a controller (within the meaning of section 9 of the Corporations Act) or similar officer appointed to all or any of its property;
(vii) 	has proceedings commenced, a resolution passed or proposed in a notice of meeting, an application to, or order of, a court made or other steps taken against or in respect of it for its winding up, deregistration or dissolution or for it to enter an arrangement, compromise or composition with or assignment for the benefit of its creditors, a class of them or any of them; or
(c) the other party, being a corporation incorporated outside Australia, becomes insolvent or suffers any event or similar event to those set out in paragraph (b) which would restrict its business operations or cause those operations to be placed under the control of a person other than its directors under the laws of its place of incorporation.
Termination of this Agreement does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of either party.
14.2 Survival of Obligations
Clauses 8, 9, 11, 15 and 17 survive termination of this Agreement.
15. Dispute Resolution
15.1 Negotiation
If there is a dispute or difference (Dispute) between the parties arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, then within 5 business days of a party notifying the other party in writing of the Dispute, a senior representative from each party must meet and use all reasonable endeavours acting in good faith to resolve the Dispute by joint discussions.
15.2 Mediation
(a) If the Dispute is not settled within 5 business days of notification under clause 15.1, the parties will, if mutually agreed, submit the Dispute to mediation administered by Lawyers Engaged in Alternative Dispute Resolution (LEADR) or other suitably qualified mediators.
(b) The mediator will be an independent person agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, a mediator will be appointed by the President of LEADR.
(c) The mediation will be conducted in accordance with the Guidelines for those Involved in Mediation published by the Law Society of New South Wales, Australia.
(d) The location or forum for any mediation meetings and proceedings under this clause is to be agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, determined by the appointed mediator.
15.3 Court proceedings and other relief
A party may not start court proceedings in relation to a Dispute until it has exhausted the procedures in this clause, unless the party seeks injunctive or other interlocutory relief.
15.4 Continuation of rights and obligations
Despite the existence of a Dispute each party must continue to perform this Agreement.
16. Assignment
The Host cannot assign, charge, encumber or otherwise deal with any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, or attempt or purport to do so, without the prior written consent of ALARA.
17. General
17.1 Costs and Stamp Duty
Each party must bear its own costs arising out of the negotiation, preparation and execution of this Agreement.  All stamp duty (including fines, penalties and interest) payable on or in connection with this Agreement and any instrument executed under or any transaction evidenced by this Agreement must be borne equally by the parties.
17.2 Governing Law and Jurisdiction
This Agreement is governed by the laws of New South Wales, Australia (excluding any choice of law rules of New South Wales).  Each party submits to the jurisdiction of courts exercising jurisdiction there, and waives any right to claim that those courts are an inconvenient forum.
17.3 No Agency or Partnership
This Agreement does not constitute any party the agent of another or imply that the parties intend constituting a partnership, joint venture or other form of association in which any party may be liable for the acts or omissions of another.  No party has authority to pledge the credit of another.
17.4 Severability of Provisions
Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction is ineffective as to that jurisdiction to the extent of the prohibition or unenforceability.  That does not invalidate the remaining provisions of this Agreement nor affect the validity or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction.
17.5 Entire Agreement
This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter.  It sets out the only conduct relied on by the parties and supersedes all earlier conduct and prior agreements and understandings between the parties in connection with its subject matter.
17.6 Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.  All counterparts together will be taken to constitute one instrument.



EXECUTED AS AN AGREEMENT:

Signed for [Full Name of Host] by its authorised representative in the presence of:Authorised Representative SignatureWitness SignaturePrint NamePrint NamePosition

Signed for the Action Learning and Action Research Association Inc. by its authorised representative in the presence of:Authorised Representative SignatureWitness SignaturePrint NamePrint NamePosition


Schedule 1 - Congress Guidelines

1. Purpose
The purpose of these Congress Guidelines is to set out in more detail the parties' common understanding of the aims and ideals for the conduct of the Congress.
2. Objectives for the Congress
World Congresses constitute a vital part of ALARA's work and mission by bringing together practitioners and scholars, participants and inquirers from around the world, joined by a common desire to foster and advance the vision of ALARA:
'that action learning and action research processes are widely used and publicly shared by individuals and groups creating local and global change for the achievement of a more informed, equitable, just, joyful, productive, peaceful and sustainable society.
A key intention is to encourage development across geographic boundaries, professional disciplines and community/organizational contexts, recognizing the common elements of the various strands, streams, settings and variants of action learning, action research and participatory processes.'
The Congress will further foster and advance this vision in principle and practice, and support the broad objectives established for world congresses.
3. Carbon Neutral Congress
ALARA is committed to delivering a carbon neutral Congress.  In addition to the Host's obligations under clause 4.1, to provide for carbon neutral planning, monitoring and auditing in the Business Plan, ALARA and the Host will use all reasonable endeavours in planning and organising the Congress to achieve this aim, including if necessary the purchase of carbon offsets.
4. Publication of Congress Papers
ALARA wishes to have the right to publish Congress papers, including any working papers developed during the Congress, in hard copy and by electronic  means.  The Host must ensure that Congress registration forms contain wording by which ALARA is automatically granted an irrevocable, royalty free, world wide licence to publish any papers presented by, or developed during the Congress by each registrant, unless the registrant expressly indicates that it elects not to grant such a licence.
5. Evaluation and Organisational Learning
The Congress Organising Committee will evaluate its work and provide a written report to the ALARA Management Committee:
• summarising the Congress Organising Committee's experience;
• identifying those aspects of the Congress and its organisation that were highly successful and those aspects which could be improved upon;
• including information which may assist future Congress Organising Committees; 
• including audited financial accounts; and 
• including carbon neutral measures for the Congress as detailed in the Business Plan.
6. Congress Timetable
The timetable for the Congress must make provision for the holding of the following meetings during the period of the Congress:
• the ALARA Annual General Meeting (generally towards the end of the Congress); and
• a meeting of international Congress participants at which the future of ALARA and the Congress can be discussed, membership strengthened and fostered, and relationships within this and other organisations developed. 


Schedule 2 - Congress Milestones

Congress MilestoneDate to be completedSubmission of Congress Business Plan and Congress Project Plan to ALARACommencement date of this Agreement plus 3 monthsALARA approval of Congress Business Plan and Project PlanCommencement date of this Agreement plus 4 monthsEstablishment of Congress Organising CommitteeT - 24 monthsFirst pre-Congress review of performance against Business PlanT - 14 monthFinalisation of Congress facilities and programme T - 12 monthsCall for abstracts/papers/participantsT - 10 monthsEarly bird registration commencesT - 9 monthsSecond pre-Congress review of performance against Business PlanT - 1 monthCongressTPost-Congress evaluationT + 3 monthsHost repays seed funding to ALARAT + 4 monthsCongress accounts reconciled, audited and closedT + 6 months

Schedule 3 - ALARA Management Committee
ALARA Management Committee, 2007-2008

Name#PositionContact NoEmailALARA Inc
PO Box 1748
TOOWONG  QLD  4077
AUSTRALIAwww.alara.net.au Donna AllemanAdministration Coordinator+ 61 (0) 7 3342 1668
+ 61 (0) 412 153 548admin@alara.net.auEXECUTIVESusan GoffPresident+61 (0) 2 9555 7184sg@susangoff.id.au 
president@alara.net.au Dianne AllenMinute Secretary+61 (0) 2 4232 2623diallen@internode.on.net Margaret Fletcher Administrative Secretary+ 61 (0) 412 147 484m.fletcher@griffith.edu.au John MolineuxTreasurer(04) 1748-3332John.Molineux@ato.gov.au DUAL PARTICIPATIONJeanette KavanaghNational Vice President(08) 8956 9348jkavanagh@ains.net.au International Vice PresidentWORKING GROUP COORDINATORSRoss ColliverWeb Services Coordinator+ 61 (0) 411 226 519colliver@ttdg.com.auMargaret O'ConnellPublications Group Coordinator+61 (0) 2 6247 8351 home
0402 672 889margoconnell@gmail.com Edward (Ted) SandercockSpecial Interests Group Coordinator+ 61 (0) 8 8556 4535sanderwt@westnet.com.au Vicki VaartjesMembership and Marketing Coordinator+ 61 (0) 413 047 852vicki@twyford.com.au 

Schedule 4 - Key Contact Details

ALARA

Registered OfficePO Box 1748, Toowong, Queensland, Australia, 4066Postal AddressAs aboveFacsimile Number+ 61 7 3870 4013Switchboard Telephone+61 7 3870 0812World Congress RepresentativeStewart HasePositionInternational Vice PresidentDirect Line+61 2 6646-5194Mobile+61 4 1725-5995Emailadmin@alarpm.org.auLocationBrisbane, Queensland, Australia
The Host

Registered OfficePostal AddressFacsimile NumberSwitchboard TelephoneCongress ManagerPositionDirect LineMobileEmailLocation

Schedule 5 - Project Plan
The Project Plan must address the following matters:
• Congress management structure;
• Participant organisations and individuals and contact information;
• Overall theme and approach of event;
• Details of accommodation, transport and other information essential for international and local participation (including any tourist information, as well as web references for security warnings);
• Details of congress consumables: catering, dinners etc, participant conference bags and contents;
• Details of virtual Congress strategy and needs;
• Details of publishing and other intended outcomes; and
• Schedule of milestones for achievements of each.


Schedule 6 - Business Plan
The Business Plan must address the following matters:
• The budget for the Congress including a break down of fees, costs, taxes and expected profits (and where applicable, details of how the ALARA Seed Funding to be provided under clause 6.2 will be used and how the Host proposes to ensure sufficient revenue from the Congress to repay the ALARA Seed Funding);
• Details of strategies for financial resourcing, management of Congress income and outgoings (including currency variations where applicable);
• Details of who is responsible (name and contact details) for managing Congress financials from Host perspective;
• Expected timetable of milestones for Congress financial management including reporting; and
• Planning for a carbon neutral Congress, including monitoring and auditing measures (see clause 3 in Schedule 1).


World Congress Hosting Agreement

sxvp A0109964697v4 405975006     23.6.2008Page (i)

sxvp A0109964697v4 405975006     23.6.2008Page 1

